docs/spessa-synth-processor/index.md, before:

# SpessaSynthProcessor
The core synthesis engine of SpessaSynth.
This module converts sound bank and MIDI data into PCM audio data.
The internal synthesis system is modeled after SoundFont2 synthesis model.

## Example

A good example of the processor in use can be
seen [spessasynth_lib's AudioWorklet wrapper](https://github.com/spessasus/spessasynth_lib/blob/master/src/synthetizer/worklet_processor.js).

## Initialization

```ts
const synth = new SpessaSynthProcessor(sampleRate, options);
```

- sampleRate - number - sample rate in Hertz, for example 44,100Hz.
- options - optional configuration, explained below:

```ts
interface SynthProcessorOptions {
    /**
     * Indicates if the event system is enabled. This can be changed later.
     */
    enableEventSystem: boolean;
    /**
     * The initial time of the synth, in seconds.
     */
    initialTime: number;
    /**
     * Indicates if the effects are enabled. This can be changed later.
     */
    enableEffects: boolean;
};
```

## Managers

- [Key Modifier Manager](key-modifier-manager.md)
- [Sound Bank Manager](sound-bank-manager.md)


## Methods

### renderAudio

Render PCM float32 audio data to the stereo outputs.

```ts
synth.renderAudio(outputs, reverb, chorus, startIndex = 0, sampleCount = all);
```

- outputs - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio output buffer, respectively.
- reverb - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the reverb processor.
- chorus - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the chorus processor.
- startIndex - optional, `number` - the offset at which to start rendering audio in the provided arrays. Default is 0.
- sampleCount - optional, `number` - the number of samples to render. Default is the entire length, starting from
  `startIndex`.

All `Float32Array`s must be the same length.

!!! Warning

    This method renders a single quantum of audio.
    The LFOs and envelopes are only processed at the beginning.
    The sampleCount/audio buffer should not be longer than 256 samples.

!!! Tip

    If `effetctsEnabled` is set to false, the effect arrays passed can be empty (`[]`).

### renderAudioSplit

Render PCM float32 audio data of separate channels + effects.

```ts
synth.renderAudioSplit(reverbChannels, chorusChannels, separateChannels, startIndex = 0, sampleCount = all);
```

- reverbChannels - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the reverb processor.
- chorusChannels - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the chorus processor.
- separateChannels - an array of exactly 16 pairs of `Float32Array` - one pair represents one channel,
  for example, the first pair is first channels L and R outputs and so on.
- startIndex - optional, `number` - the offset at which to start rendering audio in the provided arrays. Default is 0.
- sampleCount - optional, `number` - the number of samples to render. Default is the entire length, starting from
  `startIndex`.

All `Float32Array`s must be the same length.

!!! Warning

    This method renders a single quantum of audio.
    The LFOs and envelopes are only processed at the beginning.
    The sampleCount/audio buffer should not be longer than 256 samples.

!!! Tip

    If `enableEffects` is set to false, the effect arrays passed can be empty (`[]`).

### destroySynthProcessor

Delete all internal values and free up the memory.

### createMIDIChannel

Create a new MIDI channel.

### processMessage

Send a raw MIDI message to the synthesizer. Calls noteOn, noteOff, etc. internally.

```ts
synth.processMessage(message, channelOffset = 0, force, eventOptions);
```

- message - `Uint8Array` - The MIDI message to process.
- channelOffset - number, optional - adds to the channel number of the message. It defaults to 0.
- force - boolean - forces the message. That is:
    - kills a note instead of releasing it
    - force sets a controller
- eventOptions - an object, currently defined properties are:
    - time - number - time in seconds for when the message is executed.
      This allows message scheduling.
      Absolute time in synth's current time.
      A value less than the current time causes the message to get executed immediately.

### noteOn

Start playing note.

```ts
synth.noteOn(channel, midiNote, velocity);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to play. Ranges from 0 to 127.
- velocity - controls how loud the note is.
  Note that velocity of 0 has
  the same effect as using `noteOff`.
  Ranges from 0 to 127, where 127 is the loudest and 1 is the quietest.

### noteOff

Stop playing a note.

```ts
synth.noteOff(channel, midiNote);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It Usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to play. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### programChange

Change the preset for the given channel.

```ts
synth.programChange(channel, programNumber);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to change. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- programNumber - the MIDI program number to use.
  Ranges from 0 to 127.
  To use other banks, go
  to [controllerChange](#controllerchange).

### pitchWheel

Change the channel's pitch, including the currently playing notes.

```ts
synth.pitchWheel(channel, pitch);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- pitch - the 14-bit MIDI pitch value to use (0 - 16,383)

!!! Tip

    [I highly recommend this article for more info.](https://www.recordingblogs.com/wiki/midi-pitch-wheel-message)

### systemExclusive

Handle a MIDI System Exclusive message.

```ts
synth.systemExclusive(messageData, channelOffset = 0);
```

- messageData - Uint8Array, the message byte data **Excluding the 0xF0 byte!**
- channelOffset - number, the channel offset for the message as they usually can only address the first 16 channels.
  For example, to send a system exclusive on channel 16,
  send a system exclusive for channel 0 and specify the channel offset to be 16.

!!! Tip

    Refer to 
    [MIDI Implementation](../extra/midi-implementation.md) for the list of supported System Exclusives.

### controllerChange

Set a given MIDI controller to a given value.

```ts
synth.controllerChange(channel, controllerNumber, controllerValue);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- controllerNumber - the MIDI CC number of the controller to change.
  Refer
  to [this table](../extra/midi-implementation.md#default-supported-controllers)
  for the list of controllers
  supported by default.
- controllerValue - the value to set the given controller to. Ranges from 0 to 127.

!!! Note

    Note that theoretically all controllers are supported as it depends on the SoundFont's modulators.

### resetAllControllers

Reset all controllers and all programs to their default values. Essentially a system reset.
This will reset all controllers to their default values,
except for the locked controllers.

```ts
synth.resetAllControllers();
```

### channelPressure

Apply pressure to the given channel. It usually controls the vibrato amount.

```ts
synth.channelPressure(channel, pressure);
```

- channel - the channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- pressure - the pressure to apply. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### polyPressure

Apply pressure to the given note on a given channel. It usually controls the vibrato amount.

```ts
synth.polyPressure(channel, midiNote, pressure);
```

- channel - the channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to apply pressure to. Ranges from 0 to 127.
- pressure - the pressure to apply. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### stopAllChannels

Stop all voices on all channels.

```ts
synth.stopAllChannels(force = false);
```

- force - if true, the voices will be cut instead of releasing smoothly.

### setMasterParameter

Set a [master parameter value.](master-parameter.md)

```ts
synth.setMasterParameter(type, value);
```

- type - the type of the parameter to set, a string of the parameter type.
- value - the value of the parameter to set, depends on the type.

### getMasterParameter

Get a [master parameter value.](master-parameter.md)

```ts
synth.getMasterParameter(type);
```

- type - the type of the master parameter to get, a string of the parameter type.

Returns the value of the master parameter.

### getAllMasterParameters

Get all master parameters of the synthesizer.

This returns all the master parameters as a type: value object.

### killVoices

Kill (immediately stops without any fading) the specified number of voices based on their priority.

```ts
synth.killVoices(amount);
```

- amount - the amount of voices to remove.

### applySynthesizerSnapshot

Apply a [SynthesizerSnapshot](synthesizer-snapshot.md) to this synthesizer.

```ts
synth.applySynthesizerSnapshot(snapshot);
```

- snapshot - the snapshot to apply.

### getSnapshot

Get a [SynthesizerSnapshot](synthesizer-snapshot.md) instance of this synthesizer.


### setEmbeddedSoundBank

Set the embedded sound bank to this synthesizer.

This method shouldn't generally be used as it is only used by the sequencer.
Use the sound bank manager directly.

### clearEmbeddedSoundbank

Remove the embedded sound bank from the synthesizer.

## clearCache

Clear the synthesizer's voice cache.

## Properties

### onEventCall

This property can be defined as a function that listens for events.

Parameters the function gets called with:

- eventType - SynthProcessorEventData - the event type.
- eventData - depends - the event data.

[Refer to the synth event types for all events.](event-types.md)

### midiChannels

All MIDI channels of the synthesizer, an array of `MIDIChannel`.

### soundBankManager

The [sound bank manager](sound-bank-manager.md) of this synthesizer.

### keyModifierManager

The [key modifier manager](key-modifier-manager.md) of this synthesizer.

### totalVoicesAmount

The current total amount of voices that are currently playing, a number.

### processorInitialized

A `Promise` that must be awaited before the processor is used with a compressed sound bank.

### currentSynthTime

The current time of the synthesizer, in seconds.

!!! Warning

    You should not modify this.

### sampleRate

The sample rate in Hertz.

### enableEffects

Enable or disable the effect channels.

### enableEventSystem

Enable or disable the event system.
Setting this to `false` will cause the synthesizer to not emit any `onEventCall` callbacks.

Commit message:

initial per-note pitch wheel

docs/spessa-synth-processor/index.md, after:

# SpessaSynthProcessor
The core synthesis engine of SpessaSynth.
This module converts sound bank and MIDI data into PCM audio data.
The internal synthesis system is modeled after SoundFont2 synthesis model.

## Example

A good example of the processor in use can be
seen [spessasynth_lib's AudioWorklet wrapper](https://github.com/spessasus/spessasynth_lib/blob/master/src/synthetizer/worklet_processor.js).

## Initialization

```ts
const synth = new SpessaSynthProcessor(sampleRate, options);
```

- sampleRate - number - sample rate in Hertz, for example 44,100Hz.
- options - optional configuration, explained below:

```ts
interface SynthProcessorOptions {
    /**
     * Indicates if the event system is enabled. This can be changed later.
     */
    enableEventSystem: boolean;
    /**
     * The initial time of the synth, in seconds.
     */
    initialTime: number;
    /**
     * Indicates if the effects are enabled. This can be changed later.
     */
    enableEffects: boolean;
};
```

## Managers

- [Key Modifier Manager](key-modifier-manager.md)
- [Sound Bank Manager](sound-bank-manager.md)


## Methods

### renderAudio

Render PCM float32 audio data to the stereo outputs.

```ts
synth.renderAudio(outputs, reverb, chorus, startIndex = 0, sampleCount = all);
```

- outputs - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio output buffer, respectively.
- reverb - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the reverb processor.
- chorus - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the chorus processor.
- startIndex - optional, `number` - the offset at which to start rendering audio in the provided arrays. Default is 0.
- sampleCount - optional, `number` - the number of samples to render. Default is the entire length, starting from
  `startIndex`.

All `Float32Array`s must be the same length.

!!! Warning

    This method renders a single quantum of audio.
    The LFOs and envelopes are only processed at the beginning.
    The sampleCount/audio buffer should not be longer than 256 samples.

!!! Tip

    If `effetctsEnabled` is set to false, the effect arrays passed can be empty (`[]`).

### renderAudioSplit

Render PCM float32 audio data of separate channels + effects.

```ts
synth.renderAudioSplit(reverbChannels, chorusChannels, separateChannels, startIndex = 0, sampleCount = all);
```

- reverbChannels - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the reverb processor.
- chorusChannels - an array of exactly two `Float32Array` - the left and right audio buffer for the chorus processor.
- separateChannels - an array of exactly 16 pairs of `Float32Array` - one pair represents one channel,
  for example, the first pair is first channels L and R outputs and so on.
- startIndex - optional, `number` - the offset at which to start rendering audio in the provided arrays. Default is 0.
- sampleCount - optional, `number` - the number of samples to render. Default is the entire length, starting from
  `startIndex`.

All `Float32Array`s must be the same length.

!!! Warning

    This method renders a single quantum of audio.
    The LFOs and envelopes are only processed at the beginning.
    The sampleCount/audio buffer should not be longer than 256 samples.

!!! Tip

    If `enableEffects` is set to false, the effect arrays passed can be empty (`[]`).

### destroySynthProcessor

Delete all internal values and free up the memory.

### createMIDIChannel

Create a new MIDI channel.

### processMessage

Send a raw MIDI message to the synthesizer. Calls noteOn, noteOff, etc. internally.

```ts
synth.processMessage(message, channelOffset = 0, force, eventOptions);
```

- message - `Uint8Array` - The MIDI message to process.
- channelOffset - number, optional - adds to the channel number of the message. It defaults to 0.
- force - boolean - forces the message. That is:
    - kills a note instead of releasing it
    - force sets a controller
- eventOptions - an object, currently defined properties are:
    - time - number - time in seconds for when the message is executed.
      This allows message scheduling.
      Absolute time in synth's current time.
      A value less than the current time causes the message to get executed immediately.

### noteOn

Start playing note.

```ts
synth.noteOn(channel, midiNote, velocity);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to play. Ranges from 0 to 127.
- velocity - controls how loud the note is.
  Note that velocity of 0 has
  the same effect as using `noteOff`.
  Ranges from 0 to 127, where 127 is the loudest and 1 is the quietest.

### noteOff

Stop playing a note.

```ts
synth.noteOff(channel, midiNote);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It Usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to play. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### programChange

Change the preset for the given channel.

```ts
synth.programChange(channel, programNumber);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to change. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- programNumber - the MIDI program number to use.
  Ranges from 0 to 127.
  To use other banks, go
  to [controllerChange](#controllerchange).

### pitchWheel

Change the channel's pitch, including the currently playing notes.

```ts
synth.pitchWheel(channel, pitch, midiNote = -1);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- pitch - the 14-bit MIDI pitch value to use (0 - 16,383)
- midiNote, optional - allows to set per-note pitch wheel. Leave unset or set to -1 for a regular pitch wheel.

!!! Tip

    [I highly recommend this article for more info.](https://www.recordingblogs.com/wiki/midi-pitch-wheel-message)

### systemExclusive

Handle a MIDI System Exclusive message.

```ts
synth.systemExclusive(messageData, channelOffset = 0);
```

- messageData - Uint8Array, the message byte data **Excluding the 0xF0 byte!**
- channelOffset - number, the channel offset for the message as they usually can only address the first 16 channels.
  For example, to send a system exclusive on channel 16,
  send a system exclusive for channel 0 and specify the channel offset to be 16.

!!! Tip

    Refer to 
    [MIDI Implementation](../extra/midi-implementation.md) for the list of supported System Exclusives.

### controllerChange

Set a given MIDI controller to a given value.

```ts
synth.controllerChange(channel, controllerNumber, controllerValue);
```

- channel - the MIDI channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- controllerNumber - the MIDI CC number of the controller to change.
  Refer
  to [this table](../extra/midi-implementation.md#default-supported-controllers)
  for the list of controllers
  supported by default.
- controllerValue - the value to set the given controller to. Ranges from 0 to 127.

!!! Note

    Note that theoretically all controllers are supported as it depends on the SoundFont's modulators.

### resetAllControllers

Reset all controllers and all programs to their default values. Essentially a system reset.
This will reset all controllers to their default values,
except for the locked controllers.

```ts
synth.resetAllControllers();
```

### channelPressure

Apply pressure to the given channel. It usually controls the vibrato amount.

```ts
synth.channelPressure(channel, pressure);
```

- channel - the channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- pressure - the pressure to apply. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### polyPressure

Apply pressure to the given note on a given channel. It usually controls the vibrato amount.

```ts
synth.polyPressure(channel, midiNote, pressure);
```

- channel - the channel to use. It usually ranges from 0 to 15, but it depends on the channel count.
- midiNote - the note to apply pressure to. Ranges from 0 to 127.
- pressure - the pressure to apply. Ranges from 0 to 127.

### stopAllChannels

Stop all voices on all channels.

```ts
synth.stopAllChannels(force = false);
```

- force - if true, the voices will be cut instead of releasing smoothly.

### setMasterParameter

Set a [master parameter value.](master-parameter.md)

```ts
synth.setMasterParameter(type, value);
```

- type - the type of the parameter to set, a string of the parameter type.
- value - the value of the parameter to set, depends on the type.

### getMasterParameter

Get a [master parameter value.](master-parameter.md)

```ts
synth.getMasterParameter(type);
```

- type - the type of the master parameter to get, a string of the parameter type.

Returns the value of the master parameter.

### getAllMasterParameters

Get all master parameters of the synthesizer.

This returns all the master parameters as a type: value object.

### killVoices

Kill (immediately stops without any fading) the specified number of voices based on their priority.

```ts
synth.killVoices(amount);
```

- amount - the amount of voices to remove.

### applySynthesizerSnapshot

Apply a [SynthesizerSnapshot](synthesizer-snapshot.md) to this synthesizer.

```ts
synth.applySynthesizerSnapshot(snapshot);
```

- snapshot - the snapshot to apply.

### getSnapshot

Get a [SynthesizerSnapshot](synthesizer-snapshot.md) instance of this synthesizer.


### setEmbeddedSoundBank

Set the embedded sound bank to this synthesizer.

This method shouldn't generally be used as it is only used by the sequencer.
Use the sound bank manager directly.

### clearEmbeddedSoundbank

Remove the embedded sound bank from the synthesizer.

## clearCache

Clear the synthesizer's voice cache.

## Properties

### onEventCall

This property can be defined as a function that listens for events.

Parameters the function gets called with:

- eventType - SynthProcessorEventData - the event type.
- eventData - depends - the event data.

[Refer to the synth event types for all events.](event-types.md)

### midiChannels

All MIDI channels of the synthesizer, an array of `MIDIChannel`.

### soundBankManager

The [sound bank manager](sound-bank-manager.md) of this synthesizer.

### keyModifierManager

The [key modifier manager](key-modifier-manager.md) of this synthesizer.

### totalVoicesAmount

The current total amount of voices that are currently playing, a number.

### processorInitialized

A `Promise` that must be awaited before the processor is used with a compressed sound bank.

### currentSynthTime

The current time of the synthesizer, in seconds.

!!! Warning

    You should not modify this.

### sampleRate

The sample rate in Hertz.

### enableEffects

Enable or disable the effect channels.

### enableEventSystem

Enable or disable the event system.
Setting this to `false` will cause the synthesizer to not emit any `onEventCall` callbacks.
