docs/spessa-synth-processor/master-parameter.md, before:

# Master Parameter

Master parameters can be used to set parameters that affect the entire synthesizer.

They are described below.

### masterGain

The master gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% volume.

### masterPan

The master pan, from -1 (left) to 1 (right). 0 is center.

### voiceCap

The maximum number of voices that can be played at once.

!!! Warning

    Increasing this value causes memory allocation for more voices.
    It is recommended to set it at the beginning, before rendering audio to avoid GC.
    Decreasing it does not cause memory usage change, so it's fine to use.

### interpolationType

The interpolation type used for sample playback.
The interpolation types defined are:

- 0 - linear interpolation - fast, medium quality
- 1 - nearest neighbor interpolation - fastest, but lowest quality (it may be desirable in some cases to make the sound "crispier")
- 2 - hermite interpolation - slow, high quality (default)

### midiSystem

The MIDI system used by the synthesizer for bank selects and system exclusives. (GM, GM2, GS, XG, in lowercase)

### monophonicRetriggerMode

Indicates whether the synthesizer is in monophonic retrigger mode.
This emulates the behavior of Microsoft GS Wavetable Synth,
where a new note will kill the previous one if it is still playing.

### reverbGain

The reverb gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% reverb.

### chorusGain

The chorus gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% chorus.

### blackMIDIMode

Forces note killing instead of releasing. Improves performance in black MIDIs.

### transposition

The global transposition in semitones. It can be decimal to provide microtonal tuning.

### deviceID

Synthesizer's device ID for system exclusive messages. Set to -1 to accept all by default.

## See also

- [Setting a master parameter](index.md#setmasterparameter)
- [Getting a master parameter](index.md#getmasterparameter)

Commit message:

Initial delay shell, rendering pipeline refactors
and fix the drum pitch for real!

docs/spessa-synth-processor/master-parameter.md, after:

# Master Parameter

Master parameters can be used to set parameters that affect the entire synthesizer.

They are described below.

### masterGain

The master gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% volume.

### masterPan

The master pan, from -1 (left) to 1 (right). 0 is center.

### voiceCap

The maximum number of voices that can be played at once.

!!! Warning

    Increasing this value causes memory allocation for more voices.
    It is recommended to set it at the beginning, before rendering audio to avoid GC.
    Decreasing it does not cause memory usage change, so it's fine to use.

### interpolationType

The interpolation type used for sample playback.
The interpolation types defined are:

- 0 - linear interpolation - fast, medium quality
- 1 - nearest neighbor interpolation - fastest, but lowest quality (it may be desirable in some cases to make the sound "crispier")
- 2 - hermite interpolation - slow, high quality (default)

### midiSystem

The MIDI system used by the synthesizer for bank selects and system exclusives. (GM, GM2, GS, XG, in lowercase)

### monophonicRetriggerMode

Indicates whether the synthesizer is in monophonic retrigger mode.
This emulates the behavior of Microsoft GS Wavetable Synth,
where a new note will kill the previous one if it is still playing.

### reverbGain

The reverb gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% reverb.

### chorusGain

The chorus gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% chorus.

### delayGain

The delay gain, from 0 to any number. 1 is 100% delay.

### blackMIDIMode

Forces note killing instead of releasing. Improves performance in black MIDIs.

### transposition

The global transposition in semitones. It can be decimal to provide microtonal tuning.

### deviceID

Synthesizer's device ID for system exclusive messages. Set to -1 to accept all by default.

## See also

- [Setting a master parameter](index.md#setmasterparameter)
- [Getting a master parameter](index.md#getmasterparameter)
